---
layout: page
title:  "Kirchhoff's circuit laws in HKDSE Physics"
date:   2020-11-14 23:00:00 +0800
published: false
---

#### Motivation

Kirchhoff's circuit laws beautifully expresses the circuit "laws" in HKDSE physics in a far more inuitive form. In combination of Ohm's Law, you could solve all circuitry questions in the DSE. 

#### Kirchhoff's current law 

The algebraic sum of currents in a network of conductors meeting at a point is zero.

In other words, Total current entering a node / component = Total current exiting a node / component. You could say that the current is conserved, just like the conservatiaon of energy or momentum.

This explains why in a series circuit, the current is the same for all of the components. You could also use this in start / end points of a parallel circuit to derive that the total current is the sum of the currents through the individual components

#### Kirchhoff's voltage law

The directed sum of the potential differences (voltages) around any closed loop is zero.

This explains why in a series circuit, the voltage is the sum of the voltage drops of the individual components (resistance units). If we view the entire simple circuit as a closed loop, the e.m.f. generated by the battery must be cancelled by the potential differences of all of the load. 

It also explains why in a parallel circuit, the voltage is the same for all elements. This is because you could view the parallel circuit (say between two adjacent components) as a closed loop, the voltage that passes through these two adjacent components must be the same and of opposite direction. 

#### References

Much of this has been copied from wikipedia. I'm making this blog post simply as an attemept to make HKDSE physics much more intuitive to understand. For more information, you could click [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kirchhoff%27s_circuit_laws)
